Introduction:
---------------
“Linux is basically a simple operating system, but you have to be a genius to understand its simplicity”.

Linux is a critical technology for IT professionals to understand.
Linux is in widespread use, worldwide. Internet users interact with Linux applications and web server systems daily, by browsing the World Wide Web and using e-commerce sites to buy and sell products.
Linux is in use for much more than the internet. Linux manages point-of-sale systems and the world's stock markets, powers smart TVs and in-flight entertainment systems, and runs most of the top 500 supercomputers in the world. 
Linux provides the core technologies that power the cloud revolution and the tools to build the latest generations of container-based microservices applications, software-based storage technologies, and big data solutions.

Unix:
-----
Linux
HP UX
IBM AIX
MacOS
Solaris

Linux:
------
Redhat
CentOS
Ubuntu
Fedora
SUSE

System Architecture
--------------------
The components of the architecture are:
	Kernel: Kernel is the resource manager of the operating system. It is responsible for sharing system resources between multiple processes that are running in the system.
	Shell: Shell is the interface between the user and the kernel. Unix offers many different types of shells like bourne shell, bourne again shell, C shell, T shell, K Shell, etc.,
	Utilities: Users communicate to the kernel through the shell using the utilities. Unix provides many in-built utilities, and it is easier for users to create a utility by combining the existing ones.

Basics:
-------
Commands that are entered at the shell prompt have three basic parts:

Command to run.

Options to adjust the behavior of the command.

Arguments, which are typically targets of the command.
For example, in the usermod -L user01

usermod is the command, -L is the option, and user01 is the argument. 

The File-system Hierarchy
-------------------------
The Linux system stores all files on file systems, which are organized into a single inverted tree known as a file-system hierarchy. This hierarchy is an inverted tree because the tree root is at the top, and the branches of directories and subdirectories stretch below the root.


